README.md, before:

# USD Python Tools

This package installs to /Applications/usdpython and contains
- `usdzconvert`, a Python-based tool to convert from various file formats to usdz
- `usdARKitChecker`, a Python-based tool for usdz validation
- precompiled macOS Python modules for Pixar's USD library
- a set of sample scripts that demonstrate how to write usd files
- the `fixOpacity` tool
- `usdzcreateassetlib`, a standalone tool to generate an asset library from multiple assets
- `usdzaudioimport`, a standalone tool to attach audio files to usdz files

After installation you can relocate the files.

IMPORTANT! This version of USD Python tools uses Python 3.7. You can download and install Python 3.7.9 (recommended) from https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-379/.

The easiest way to start using these command-line tools is to double-click `USD.command` in the Finder. This will open a Terminal window with all necessary environment variables set.

For more details, including demos, see the WWDC 2019 session "Working with USD": 
https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/602/

## usdzconvert (version 0.66)

`usdzconvert` is a Python script that converts obj, gltf, fbx, abc, and usda/usdc/usd assets to usdz.
It also performs asset validation on the generated usdz.
For more information, run

    usdzconvert -h

### MaterialX Support

`usdzconvert` includes an optional `-useMaterialX` switch. When enabled, the
converter will store a flag in the conversion parameters so that later stages
can generate MaterialX based shader graphs. The default behaviour continues to
produce UsdPreviewSurface materials. When generating a `.usdz` with this option,
any `.mtlx` library files found in paths listed by the `MATERIALX_LIB_PATHS`
environment variable are copied into the package.

### iOS 12 Compatibility

To export .usdz files that play back correctly on iOS 12, use `usdzconvert`'s  `-iOS12` compatibility switch. When run with `-iOS12`, `usdzconvert` will use the Python Imaging Library (PIL) module to do texture conversion. 
If your Python environment is missing PIL, you can install it by running:

    pip install pillow

### FBX Support

Note that FBX support in `usdzconvert` requires both Autodesk's FBX SDK and FBX Python bindings to be installed on your system.
To make FBX bindings available to Python, uncomment the line 

    export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:"/Applications/Autodesk/FBX Python SDK/2020.2.1/lib/Python37_x64"

in `USD.command`, and adjust the path to point to the location of fbx.so (for Python 3.7).

## usdARKitChecker

`usdARKitChecker` is a Python script that validates existing usdz files. It is automatically run by `usdzconvert`, but can also be used as a stand-alone tool to validate files from other sources.
For more information, run 

    usdARKitChecker -h

Currently `usdARKitChecker` consists of three parts:
- validation through Pixar's `usdchecker`
- mesh attribute validation
- UsdPreviewSurface material validation

## Precompiled macOS Python Modules for Pixar's USD Library (Version 19.11)

This library was compiled using version 3.7.9 of Python.

This library was compiled using version 22.03 of [the public USD GitHub repository](http://openusd.org) with the following build script arguments (see USDPython/README.md for further details):

    python3.7 USD/build_scripts/build_usd.py --build-args TBB,extra_inc=big_iron.inc --python --no-imaging --docs --no-usdview --build-monolithic USDPython

If you prefer to set your environment variables directly , 

To start using USD in Python, set your PATH and PYTHONPATH variables as follows (replace `<PATH_TO_USDPYTHON>` with the path to this USDPython folder):

    export PATH=$PATH:<PATH_TO_USDPYTHON>/USD
    export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:<PATH_TO_USDPYTHON>/USD/lib/python

You should then be able to start using the USD library in Python 3.7:

    > python3.7
    Python 3.7.9 (v3.7.9:13c94747c7, Aug 15 2020, 01:31:08)
    Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
    >>> import pxr
    >>> 

## Samples

The `samples` folder contains a set of simple scripts that focus on different aspects of writing USD data, such as geometry, materials, skinning and animation. 
Each script generates a .usd and a .usdz file in the `assets` sub folder, and also prints the generated .usd file's content.

| Script | Purpose |
| ------ | --- |
| `101_scenegraph.py` | creates a scene graph |
| `102_mesh.py` | creates a cube mesh |
| `103_simpleMaterial.py` | creates a simple PBR material |
| `104_texturedMaterial.py` | creates a cube mesh and assigns it a PBR material with a diffuse texture |
| `105_pbrMaterial.py` | creates a cube mesh and assigns it a more complex PBR material with textures for normal, roughness and diffuse channels |
| `106_meshGroups.py` | creates a cube mesh with two mesh groups and assigns each a separate material |
| `107_transformAnimation.py` |  builds a scene graph of several objects and sets (animated) translate, rotate, and scale transforms |
| `109_skinnedAnimation.py` | creates an animated skinned cube |
| `201_subdivision.py` | creates a subdivided cube with creases |
| `202_references.py` | creates an asset file then a reference file that reference and overwrite the asset file|

## fixOpacity

If you converted your usdz asset with Xcode's usdz_converter, and it has translucent materials that render opaque in iOS 13, use this script to correct the asset's translucent materials:

    fixOpacity model.usdz

## usdzcreateassetlib

usdzcreateassetlib is a script that generates a single-file asset library from multiple usdz assets. The result is a nested usdz file that contains the source usdz assets and references them in a variant set.
This script does not depend on the USD library, which should make it easy to deploy on servers.

## usdzaudioimport

usdzaudioimport is a script to attach sound/audio files into existing a usdz file. With this tool users can create SpatialAudio nodes in usdz file and specify parameters for it. For more information, run:

    usdzaudioimport -h

Commit message:

Update docs for conda and pip workflow

README.md, after:

# USD Python Tools

This package installs to /Applications/usdpython and contains
- `usdzconvert`, a Python-based tool to convert from various file formats to usdz
- `usdARKitChecker`, a Python-based tool for usdz validation
- precompiled macOS Python modules for Pixar's USD library
- a set of sample scripts that demonstrate how to write usd files
- the `fixOpacity` tool
- `usdzcreateassetlib`, a standalone tool to generate an asset library from multiple assets
- `usdzaudioimport`, a standalone tool to attach audio files to usdz files

After installation you can relocate the files.

IMPORTANT! These tools require Python 3.7. We recommend creating a conda environment and installing the USD runtime with pip:

```bash
conda create -n usdpython37 python=3.7
conda activate usdpython37
pip install usd-core
```

Add the `usdzconvert` directory from this repository to your `PATH` so the command can be executed directly:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/usdpython/usdzconvert
```

You can verify the setup by running:

```bash
usdzconvert -h
```

For more details, including demos, see the WWDC 2019 session "Working with USD": 
https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2019/602/

## usdzconvert (version 0.66)

`usdzconvert` is a Python script that converts obj, gltf, fbx, abc, and usda/usdc/usd assets to usdz.
It also performs asset validation on the generated usdz.
For more information, run

    usdzconvert -h

### MaterialX Support

`usdzconvert` includes an optional `-useMaterialX` switch. When enabled, the
converter will store a flag in the conversion parameters so that later stages
can generate MaterialX based shader graphs. The default behaviour continues to
produce UsdPreviewSurface materials. When generating a `.usdz` with this option,
any `.mtlx` library files found in paths listed by the `MATERIALX_LIB_PATHS`
environment variable are copied into the package.

### iOS 12 Compatibility

To export .usdz files that play back correctly on iOS 12, use `usdzconvert`'s  `-iOS12` compatibility switch. When run with `-iOS12`, `usdzconvert` will use the Python Imaging Library (PIL) module to do texture conversion. 
If your Python environment is missing PIL, you can install it by running:

    pip install pillow

### FBX Support

Note that FBX support in `usdzconvert` requires both Autodesk's FBX SDK and FBX Python bindings to be installed on your system. Ensure the bindings are on `PYTHONPATH`, for example:

    export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:"/Applications/Autodesk/FBX Python SDK/2020.2.1/lib/Python37_x64"

## usdARKitChecker

`usdARKitChecker` is a Python script that validates existing usdz files. It is automatically run by `usdzconvert`, but can also be used as a stand-alone tool to validate files from other sources.
For more information, run 

    usdARKitChecker -h

Currently `usdARKitChecker` consists of three parts:
- validation through Pixar's `usdchecker`
- mesh attribute validation
- UsdPreviewSurface material validation

## Python Package

The USD runtime is delivered via the `usd-core` package installed in the steps above. After activating the conda environment and installing the package, you can import `pxr` modules directly:

```bash
python -c "import pxr; print('USD available')"
```

## Samples

The `samples` folder contains a set of simple scripts that focus on different aspects of writing USD data, such as geometry, materials, skinning and animation. 
Each script generates a .usd and a .usdz file in the `assets` sub folder, and also prints the generated .usd file's content.

| Script | Purpose |
| ------ | --- |
| `101_scenegraph.py` | creates a scene graph |
| `102_mesh.py` | creates a cube mesh |
| `103_simpleMaterial.py` | creates a simple PBR material |
| `104_texturedMaterial.py` | creates a cube mesh and assigns it a PBR material with a diffuse texture |
| `105_pbrMaterial.py` | creates a cube mesh and assigns it a more complex PBR material with textures for normal, roughness and diffuse channels |
| `106_meshGroups.py` | creates a cube mesh with two mesh groups and assigns each a separate material |
| `107_transformAnimation.py` |  builds a scene graph of several objects and sets (animated) translate, rotate, and scale transforms |
| `109_skinnedAnimation.py` | creates an animated skinned cube |
| `201_subdivision.py` | creates a subdivided cube with creases |
| `202_references.py` | creates an asset file then a reference file that reference and overwrite the asset file|

## fixOpacity

If you converted your usdz asset with Xcode's usdz_converter, and it has translucent materials that render opaque in iOS 13, use this script to correct the asset's translucent materials:

    fixOpacity model.usdz

## usdzcreateassetlib

usdzcreateassetlib is a script that generates a single-file asset library from multiple usdz assets. The result is a nested usdz file that contains the source usdz assets and references them in a variant set.
This script does not depend on the USD library, which should make it easy to deploy on servers.

## usdzaudioimport

usdzaudioimport is a script to attach sound/audio files into existing a usdz file. With this tool users can create SpatialAudio nodes in usdz file and specify parameters for it. For more information, run:

    usdzaudioimport -h
